---
layout: post
title: "Hello"
description: ""
category: ""
tags: [life, family, tech]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
Once again, I'm going to dive back into writting a bit.  We all know that writting is good for the brain, and, I believe, good for the soul.  Unlike previous attempts at writting, this time around I'm not oging to restrain myself to a single topic.  I'll touch on life and family, some politics, maybe some sports (if only to celebrate my favorite teams), leadership, and, of course, technology.  Each of these topics hold special meaning to me in some way. 

Life and family are the core of my daily life, as is it to core of daily life for most people.  As one of my children enter adulthood, and the second enters high school, the meanning of family, and life within a very close family has faced interesting new stresses and anxieties.  This will server as a outlet to help cope with these changes.

Politics (actually public policy) influences every aspect of living in the United States.  You may think politics are uninteresting of not relevant to you, but you'd be wrong.  With recent developments with the NSA, surging support for same-sex marraige, and gun contorl controversies, politics in America are becomming ever more important.  I don't expect you'll agree withh all of my views (maybe not any), but discussions on public policy, and awareness of the direction our political elite are pushing America have impact on the lives of all Americas, and in many cases the whole world.

Finally, technology, who can forget that?  Tech is what I do.  It's what I do for work, and it's what I do for fun.  I tend to have strong opinions on technology (though they may not be what you think), especially where tech intersects with politics.  Of particular interest is women in tech.  While I've always found it to be an interesting subject, the real turning point came when my own (11 year old) daughter was told, by a teacher, that MIT was to difficult for a girl.  

Of course, I'm open to covering any topic you may want to hear about.  Again, just drop me a line, and I'll see what I can do.  For now, enjoy the new year, and we'll talk again in a week or two.
